---
layout: post
title: Summary Of 2017 
key: 20180101
tags: summary
---

This is the first day of 2018. I want to review what I had gained last year so that I can review things I need to learn next.

Last I tried some new techniques in production and reviewed some skills I had.

### New Things learned

* cordova 

One of my project manager mentioned required phone gap be implemented in one of our project as it was written in reactjs. I tried phone gap online, then found cordova might be the tool we want. Thus, we used it as our phone app builder for all our projects.

* electron

Cordova opened another window for us, then we tried electron for our management system which we reuse many component for other projects.


* Vuejs

When I tried to refactor one of our angularj project, there were two choices reactjs stack and vuejs stack. Though I had developed three small projects in reactjs. Maybe I had spent too many time on angularjs, I prefer html over jsx and list render way in vuejs. I spent three months to completely rewritten the whole front-end from angularjs to vuejs stack.

* postgis

Easy to learn and very powerful tool for spatial data

### Old knowledge review

* C/C++

I registered some operation system online course in coursera, which I gained a lot useful knowledge. Thus, I followed a tutorial online and digged some information in OSdev. Then I tried to write a toy operation system in c++, which surprisingly went well. I will continue to work on it.

* java
If I knew spring boot two years ago, I would not use nodejs or python for backends anymore.

* python

Try some machine learning demo and wrote many scrapy programs.

* js

Using ES6 for production and try restify for RESTful apis.

* sql

Optimise sql query for a 2 million database in free AWS RDS.

### Things planning to learn and review

* .net core / c# / unity

With a glance of .net core 2.0, I knew it could be the technique stack I can feed my family.

* c/c++

Finish the toy os in 2018

* WebAssembly / WebRTC / WebVR

Try the future web

* Math / AI

Review math knowledge from coursera and prepare for AI






